README.md, before:

# UserOps Django App (Open edX)

This repository contains the **`userops` Django app** only.

It installs a staff-only API in LMS to:

- Preview users filtered by `UserProfile.meta` JSON content.
- Bulk enroll matching users into one or more courses by forwarding to Open edX built-in bulk enrollment API logic.

## How it works

- User metadata is read from `common.djangoapps.student.models.UserProfile.meta` (a `TextField`).
- Filtering is done **in Python** by parsing JSON safely (`invalid/empty => {}`).
- Filters are applied against `meta["org"]` using case-insensitive, trimmed string comparison.
- Matching users are converted to email identifiers (users with empty email are skipped).
- Enrollment is forwarded to Open edX `BulkEnrollView` (no custom enrollment DB writes).


## UserOps Dashboard (Staff Only)

- URL: `/userops/`
- APIs: `/api/userops/v1/...`
- Access: You must be logged in as an LMS staff user.

## API Endpoints

All endpoints are LMS endpoints and require `request.user.is_staff == True`.

### 1) Preview users by metadata

`POST /api/userops/v1/users/preview`

Request:

```json
{
  "filters": {"cluster": "NORTH 1", "asm_1": "ASM1"},
  "limit": 50
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "count": 123,
  "sample": [
    {
      "username": "demo",
      "email": "demo@example.com",
      "org": {"cluster": "NORTH 1", "asm_1": "ASM1"}
    }
  ]
}
```

### 2) Bulk enroll by metadata

`POST /api/userops/v1/bulk-enroll/by-metadata`

Request:

```json
{
  "filters": {"cluster": "NORTH 1", "asm_1": "ASM1"},
  "courses": ["course-v1:edX+Demo+123", "course-v1:edX+Demo2+456"],
  "cohorts": ["cohortA", "cohortB"],
  "action": "enroll",
  "auto_enroll": true,
  "email_students": false
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "matched_users": 123,
  "used_identifiers": 120,
  "skipped_no_email": 3,
  "upstream_status": 200,
  "upstream_body": {"...": "response from bulk enroll"}
}
```

Validation highlights:

- `courses` required and non-empty.
- `action` must be `enroll` or `unenroll`.
- If `cohorts` is provided and non-empty, its length must match `courses` length.

## Installation

From this repository root:

```bash
pip install -e .
```

Then make sure your Open edX environment loads this app via your own plugin/integration layer.
This package exposes the standard Open edX entry point:

- `lms.djangoapp`: `userops.apps:UserOpsConfig`

## Notes

- Staff-only permissions are enforced on both endpoints.
- This app intentionally reuses Open edX built-in bulk enrollment endpoint logic via `BulkEnrollView`.

Commit message:

Fix plugin URL config and route dashboard/API via single mount

README.md, after:

# UserOps Django App (Open edX)

This repository contains the **`userops` Django app** only.

It installs a staff-only API in LMS to:

- Preview users filtered by `UserProfile.meta` JSON content.
- Bulk enroll matching users into one or more courses by forwarding to Open edX built-in bulk enrollment API logic.

## How it works

- User metadata is read from `common.djangoapps.student.models.UserProfile.meta` (a `TextField`).
- Filtering is done **in Python** by parsing JSON safely (`invalid/empty => {}`).
- Filters are applied against `meta["org"]` using case-insensitive, trimmed string comparison.
- Matching users are converted to email identifiers (users with empty email are skipped).
- Enrollment is forwarded to Open edX `BulkEnrollView` (no custom enrollment DB writes).


## UserOps Dashboard (Staff Only)

- URL: `/userops/`
- APIs: `/api/userops/v1/...`
- Access: You must be logged in as an LMS staff user.
- Routing note: both UI and API are served via a single LMS plugin URL mount (`regex = "^"`).

## API Endpoints

All endpoints are LMS endpoints and require `request.user.is_staff == True`.

### 1) Preview users by metadata

`POST /api/userops/v1/users/preview`

Request:

```json
{
  "filters": {"cluster": "NORTH 1", "asm_1": "ASM1"},
  "limit": 50
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "count": 123,
  "sample": [
    {
      "username": "demo",
      "email": "demo@example.com",
      "org": {"cluster": "NORTH 1", "asm_1": "ASM1"}
    }
  ]
}
```

### 2) Bulk enroll by metadata

`POST /api/userops/v1/bulk-enroll/by-metadata`

Request:

```json
{
  "filters": {"cluster": "NORTH 1", "asm_1": "ASM1"},
  "courses": ["course-v1:edX+Demo+123", "course-v1:edX+Demo2+456"],
  "cohorts": ["cohortA", "cohortB"],
  "action": "enroll",
  "auto_enroll": true,
  "email_students": false
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "matched_users": 123,
  "used_identifiers": 120,
  "skipped_no_email": 3,
  "upstream_status": 200,
  "upstream_body": {"...": "response from bulk enroll"}
}
```

Validation highlights:

- `courses` required and non-empty.
- `action` must be `enroll` or `unenroll`.
- If `cohorts` is provided and non-empty, its length must match `courses` length.

## Installation

From this repository root:

```bash
pip install -e .
```

Then make sure your Open edX environment loads this app via your own plugin/integration layer.
This package exposes the standard Open edX entry point:

- `lms.djangoapp`: `userops.apps:UserOpsConfig`

## Notes

- Staff-only permissions are enforced on both endpoints.
- This app intentionally reuses Open edX built-in bulk enrollment endpoint logic via `BulkEnrollView`.
